♪ [music] ♪
In this video, we're going to be making
our store locator with Google Maps built
in. So we're going to be making an API
endpoint that we can ping,
given a lat and a long, and that's going
to return to us the top 10 closest stores
that are within a kilometer, or 1,000
kilometers, or however much we'd like.
So for example, if I type in "Hamilton"
because of all our demo stores are in
Hamilton, and I hit Enter, what it's going
to do is a couple things.
First, it's going to center the map on
Hamilton. Second, it's also going to take
everything that it got from the API and
plot them as little markers on top of
here. So that's great to be able to do
that. We need to do sort of a similar
layout that we did to searching for our
actual stores, where we need to index our
data. We need to create a route. We need
to handle it in our Store controller.
Let's first open up our store.js, and
handle that indexing. So if we scroll down
here, we have our index, which is our name
and our description.
That's being indexed as text. Sort of
we're telling the database that this is
text. What we're also going to do is we're
going to tell it that our location is
going to be what's called "geospatial."
It's going to store the metadata about
this location as geospatial data, and then
it's going to be able to quickly and
easily search for things that are
specifically near our lat and long that we
pass it. So we take our Store Schema, and
we call an "index" on it,
and we are going to index the location
property. Right? Because that's what our
location property is right here. We're
going to tell it to index it as a 2D
sphere. That is because I believe the
world is round, and that will give us
information about it. So I'm going to give
this a save, and we go back to our MongoDB
Compass. I've found that if you click on
Users and you click Back to Stores,
your indexes should now have
"location_2Dsphere" because that's our
location. It's telling us the type is
"geospatial", pretty sweet,
and then the size, the usage, and all
kinds of information specifically about
that. Good. So we now have our new index
location, "2Dsphere" showing up.
We want to create the route, as well as
the method to handle that route.
So open up index.js, go all the way to the
bottom, and we'll make a
"router.get('/api/stores/near',". So we're
going to search for stores that are near,
and we're going to take our Store
controller, and we're going to run a
method called "mapStores". Good. We'll
open up our Store controller,
go all the way to the bottom here, and we
are going to make that method called
"mapStores". From that, let's just
"res.json" and object, "it: 'Worked!'"
Let's see how that works. We can go to
/api/stores/near, and we get reply of "it:
'Worked!'" Good. The way that we are going
to hit this endpoint is with two queries.
It's going to be the lat and the long. So
if we were to "res.json(req.query)" and we
go to this URL and we pass it our lat 43,
and our lng -179 and hit Enter,
what that will do is we'll give us
a query of lat and long. Now,
the way that MongoDB expects us to pass it
to it is it expects us to pass it an array
of long and lat numbers. Okay. So let's go
up here and we'll say,
"const coordinates = an array" and the
array is going to be made up the
"req.query.lng", remember, weirdo, long
comes first, and then "req.query.lat".
Then, let's just take that "coordinates"
and try to json back the data,
just so we can see what we're working with
here. Good. It returns us an array of...
These aren't really numbers. These are an
array of strings. So one little quick
thing we can do is we can map over it and
pass it to "parseFloat",
and that should map over every item in the
array and turn it into an actual number.
Now, when I refresh, that's when we get
true numbers, -179 and 43.
So good. We have those coordinates here.
We can get rid of this "res.json",
because we know what's going on here.
Next, we want to make our query,
so that when we do store.find, we're going
to be able to pass it.
Because this query, it's going to be a
healthy query. It's going to be a big
query. So we need to be able to write it
in a separate object,
and then pass it in. So I'll say "const q
= an object." Then, down here,
we can already do the "const stores =
await Store.find(q)", and then
"res.json(stores)". Okay. Good. That will
probably work without anything in our
query. Let's double-check. There we go.
We've got a huge, long list of stores that
are actually coming back because our query
is just a blank object.
Now, what we want to do is we want to
search for stores where the location
property is near. Woo. Look at this. So
"near" is an operator inside of MongoDB,
and it will allow us to just search for
stores that are near a certain lat and a
long. There's no math that needs to happen
here, because MongoDB is wise to lat and
long, and it will know exactly how to find
the ones that are near.
So say it's near and we tell it we're
passing it geometry. That's another object
inside of there. The type is going to be a
"point", because you could also have a
fenced in area that you're searching for.
In our case, it's just "point".
The coordinates is going to be equal to
our coordinates variable.
Or again, we don't need to double up that,
just like that. We also want to specify
what the max distance is. So,
"$maxDistance". Make sure you have the "D"
there, otherwise it won't work, and
"10,000". That means 10,000 meters,
which is equal to 10 kilometers. So if you
are from the United States of America,
kilometers, they're sort of like miles,
but they make sense in that everything is
10-based. We have meters and centimeters,
and millimeters, and kilometers,
and all kinds of good stuff like that. So
if you are unsure, you'll have to do some
conversion on Google to convert
it to actual kilometers. Good.
So let's see now, when we refresh this, we
are looking for all of our items here.
Randy's BBQ Joint is in the United States.
Now, if I refresh, we get nothing,
and I believe that's because there is
nothing within 10 kilometers of 43, -179.
So what you can do is you can comma
that max distance out to see all of them
real quick again, and you can take a...
Let's go to one that is in Hamilton,
since that's where most of these samples
ones are, -79, 43. So I believe -79.8 and
43.2, let's use that as a search. So we'll
go to this page. We'll make sure that our
max distance of 10 kilometers is set on,
and there we go. Now,
we're only getting one, two, three, four.
We're getting all of the ones that are in
Hamilton. If you were to bring that down
to just 10 meters, you'd probably get none
again. There we go. Nothing. So within 10
kilometers of this point,
it's going to show us where all
of the actual values are. Good.
So we've now made this API endpoint here.
But there's a couple things going on here
that I'd like to fix. First of all, we
don't actually need all of this
information here. We only just need a
couple of different pieces of information
in our API. In general, you want to keep
your Ajax request as slim as possible.
So what do we need? We need the name, we
need the slug, we need the description,
we need the photo, and we need the
address. Everything else we don't need.
So what you can do is you can actually go
to Find and chain a .select value on it,
and you can specify either which fields
you do want or which fields you do not
want. So in our case, maybe we just want
the photo and we want the name.
So "photo name", give that a save. Now,
when I refresh this, you'll see that we
are only getting the ID, the name, and the
photo back for every single one of them.
Also, what you can do is you can take away
ones that you don't specifically want.
So if we don't want the author and we
don't want the tags, you can minus those
and you see that there is no actual value
being passed here for the author or for
the tags. So that's really neat. Let's go
ahead and just select the pieces that we
need. We need the slug, we need the name,
we need the description,
and we need the location. Now, when I
refresh, we have the slug,
the name, the description, and the
location. We're keeping the overhead as
small as possible, and that's going to
help make our Ajax request nice and fast
for us. Finally, we can type a ".limit" on
the end there, and we can limit it to the
closest 10. We don't want to put too many
points on our map. Of course,
all of this stuff could be configurable,
sent over via the "req.query.limit".
That is if you would like to. Now that we
actually have our API endpoint up and
running, let's actually get into writing
some frontend code again,
so that we can build out our frontend of
Google Maps.
♪ [music] ♪